# Observations from UAT

These are some of the observations that I've gathered during UAT.  I would like to have a plan put together to review and address each of these observations.

### Import Wizard
- I see some transactions imported from the same file sometimes show as positive and sometimes show as negative.  I am not sure when those were imported, but need to investigate
- Why was I able to import the exact same file over and over.  I thought that the wizard attempted to remove duplicate entries.  It should look at all transactions, not just importing transactions, to detect possible duplicates.
- Also, on duplicates, I think the wizard should show a screen with detected possible duplicates and let the user decide what to do with options such as:  import anyway, merge with existing (for things like updating payee, description, etc.), delete original and import new transaction.
- The smart rule suggestion just doesn't seem to work the way I kind of expected it.  I'm willing to see what the latest development round yields, but I feel like it needs more "smartness" and use regex more effectively to look for possible payee names.  I honestly think that this the main purpose of the rule suggestor is to just look for possible payee names in the description (or other import fields) and then use that to try and match existing payees in the platform or suggest to create a new payee if it doesnt match, or give the user a chance to search for a payee if it can't match.
- Over time the wizard should just get better and better and have fewer interruptions during the import.  The very first import would have likely many suggestions and require the creation of many new Payees, but over time, the number of suggestions would go down as only newer, unmatched payees are found.
- I'm not sure about how this is implemented currently, but I think that the original file data that is uploaded during an import needs to be retained in the platform.  Meaning: if a user uploads a CSV or OFX file with transations, the original file needs to be saved in the database and linked to the import record (history).  I think this will be useful for things like rollback, duplicate detection, user re-download, etc.  I know this uses some storage, but honestly, text based transaction histories shouldn't be a ton of space to store these files.  And, I don't think we want to store a parsed version of the file, I think we want to store the raw text (could be binary storage) - but the point is to store the original file in the database for later retrieval and usage if needed by the user or platform.
- Map Columns needs to be more robust and really give the user the ability to drag and drop map columns.  There are lots of examples in the wild about how best to do column mapping, and what we currently support on the frontend is not very user friendly.  And, once the user maps columns, I think that column mapping needs to be saved somehow so that it can be reused in the future.  Users are likely to be coming back and import the same file formats over and over week over week or month over month, so having saved column mappings will be helpful.  And, there have to be the ability to save multiple different column mappings so that users can import different file formats from different instutions.  They can name the column mappings setups so that they can choose it as they import future files to make it faster.
- Generally in the Import Wizard process, I want the user to really be able to see what is going to happen. I don't want to automatically perform actions (like auto creation of payees or auto apply rules).  I want the user to see what will run, and have the option to uncheck things that the user may not want to happen - this especially applies to rules being run. Honestly, I feel like the import process needs to kind of also record the internal steps being taken (like maybe as simple as a log) and then be able to show the user the details of the import run in the import history screen if the user wants to see the details.  This would be helpful for troubleshooting if a problem happens during import.
- Could an import be "undone"?  Like could we think about adding the ability to "undo" a specific import to remove what was added.  This could be helpful to revert during a situation where the user made a mistake or the system incorrectly imported something.

### Payees
- The payees management screen shows the Payee category as something like "Category: 4" instead of linking to and showing the text of the category. Needs to be fixed.
- I would like to have the platform include a big list of PNG images for all of the most well known institutions.  I'm thinking thousands of the most common US companies/brands/retailers/etc. There must be a source on the internet to retrieve these images and package within this project and made available to allow users to select the icons.  And the list should try and autopopulate with a well known brand icon image based on the payee name if it can make a match.
- For icons of other less well known or local Payees, we should offer the ability for the user to choose a standard emoticon. For instance, le's say a new Payee is added for a company called "Fireplaces R Us" (which is not a well known brand/company), the platform could auto recommend using a flame emoji as the company icon.  I just don't think users are going to spend the effort to go out and search the web for icon images for lesser well known companies and add the icon URL to the platform.  This would help.  If a match cant be made, a default image or emojo should be suggested so that basically all Payees end up with some kind of icon image associated.

### Transactions
- I think the Filter/Search/Sort features need to be baked into the column titles in the header bar; as they stand now they take up real estate that is not always needed/used, and could be in the header bar like many other tabular style UX works these days.
- The Quick Add needs to be collapsed by default and can be enabled by expanding the area to use Quick Add.  And, I think we should look at making it existing as the first row of the table list of transactions (maybe?) and always just sits right under the header row?
- On the Quick Add, move the Expense/Income toggle to be inline with the other fields as maybe just a dropdown intead of two buttons to simplify.  Should still default to Expense.
- In the table of transactions, I don't think we need to include the column "Type" by default.
- Consider a stretch goal feature as making the columns shown configurable so that the user can decide which of transactions columns to show.  This could be future phase, not a MVP requirement.
- Would like to see automatic infinite scrolling for transactions, both forward and backward, where the data model in the frontend has say maybe an optimal number of transations in memory (100? 200? 500?).  I am fine with the 20 or 50 or so transactions on the screen and always start the page with that number of transactions loaded from the backend. Then, as the user scrolls down, another 20 or 50 transactions get loaded into frontend from the backend.  And, if the user continues to scroll getting another page and another page - eventually, the frontend will hit the 200 or 500 transation limit and purge the top of the data from the local data.  Then, if the user scrolls up and up and up, eventually the frontend may need to pull the earlier (top) data again from the backend if the local data had been purged due to local data storage limits defined.
- Would like button/link on the right hand side of transaction indicating a note is added, and the user can tap/clickk to expand the note to see what the note says.  Will be helpful when a transaction seem suspicious or if user wants to remember something specific about that transaction.
- Would like to add the ability to "star" a transaction - sort of like favoriting or flagging.  Adding the star will let users quickly flag a transaction because they need to quickly find it later (through filtering) or if they just want to follow up on that item for some reason. Stars should work very similarly to how say Gmail message stars work.  Stars should exit on the right-most area of the tranaction row.
- Would like to see the Payee icon appear next to the Payee field in the transaction list.

### Accounts
- I noticed that if I add data to the field "Institution" for an Account it doesn't seem to save nor show up anywhere else in the platform.  Can this be reviewed as a possible bug?

### General
- The form field text seems far to light.  I can barely see the text in the form fields.  I think this needs to be reviewed from a style perspective and updated.
- Speaking of Styles, I think the overall UI styling needs to be reviewed.  I a feel like the color scheme could use a "once-over" to suggest something more appealing.
- Primarily for testing and UAT, I would like an option to clear things like transactions, payees, categories, etc. and reseed the database with the standard seed data.  This might most easily be accomplished by providing an bash script that can use parameters to clear, reset, reseed, etc.
- The navigation bar is getting a bit cluttered. I think it is sime to consider refining the navigation to either have sub-navigation or some other way to make it simpler.  (Example might be to move Import History under Import?)
- To start being able to support some of the customizations and preferences, I think we need to add a Settings page where we can start to add many settings.  The settings should follow similar layout and structure and architecture to today's most common settings structure.  Should we save settings as json in the DB somewhere?  Think about how/where to store that and how to layout the screen for settings with groups of settings like settings categories.  Think like how Obsidian or even visual studio have settings available and searchable.



